Page 1:

The paper makes its beginning with an introduction to the Android platform, emphasizing its importance in the world of mobile devices. It highlights the inclining trend towards premium mobile applications such as video calling, mobile Internet browsing and content sharing driven by technological advancements
Android has been introduced as an important open source platform for mobile devices, developed by Google. 

Its main objective is to establish a customized and open ecosystem for mobile software and application development. Android provides developers with an open framework, making it ideal for multimedia applications and web browsers development in particular.


The paper briefly describes the software architecture of the Android platform and it elaborates how the entire architecture is basically divided into four components: applications, application frameworks, libraries, and the Android runtime, and the operating system (which uses Linux as its Kernel ) and sets the stage for an in-depth discussion of these components.

Page 2:

The second page elaborates the Android setup processes. It begins with a discussion of the App Framework that is designed to be reused by developers. This design allows for different types of reuse of several components and functionalities for different projects.

Libraries and Android runtimes are the most popular. Android has C/C++ libraries that are used by various components of the system. It should be noted that although Android applications are developed in Java, they rely on Android runtime components, in particular the Dalvik Virtual Machine.

Dalvik virtual machine is defined as a low-loss virtual machine, designed to protect memory resources. It runs multiple Android applications independently and each Android Application uses a single Dalvik Machine, contributing to the quality of content.The rest of the page focuses on Android application process analysis. 

The paper highlights the open and integrated approach to developing Android applications, allowing them to use each other’s functionality. This is facilitated by features such as Activity, Attention Receiver, Service, and Provider, all of which must be declared in the AndroidManifest.xml file.
The paper uses Intents to describe the connections between these several elements. Intents are used to facilitate and fease communication between parts of the Android system.

The development of an Android application, specifically a music player, is used as an example to illustrate the successful implementation of these concepts. It discusses user interface development using the View and ViewGroup classes and explains how the use of Services and BroadcastReceiver achieves broadcast control.
The paper concludes by reaffirming the corresponding open nature of Android, making it a powerful platform for developers to create personalized mobile applications

Page 3:


In summary, the paper provides a comprehensive analysis of Android as a mobile development platform, highlighting its open design, component-based design, and the potential for developers to announce new custom applications Music player development is a useful example of this concept at work.







Name: K. Naga Srinivasan
Dept: CSE
Reg no: 2022103078
Ph no: 7667593442
